#summary This tutorial shows how KOALA can help you working with S3 compatible cloud services
#labels Featured

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= First steps with the KOALA Cloud Manager and S3 =

Before you start with KOALA using S3 it is highly appreciated that you consult [http://code.google.com/p/koalacloud/wiki/FirstStepsWithEC2andKOALA this] document that tells what you need to use KOALA at all and how to get your credentials inserted.

For using KOALA to interact with S3 compatible cloud services you need access to at least a single cloud service that uses the API of Amazons Simple Storage Service ([http://aws.amazon.com/s3/ S3]). 

The following table shows the cloud services available that are compatible to the S3 API.

|| *S3 compatible services*                || *Private/Public Cloud* || *License*   || *Supported by KOALA* ||
|| [http://aws.amazon.com/s3/ Amazon S3  ] || Public Cloud           || proprietary || yes ||
|| Walrus from [http://open.eucalyptus.com Eucalyptus] || Private Cloud          || GPL v3      || yes ||
|| Cumulus from [http://www.nimbusproject.org Nimbus]  || Private Cloud          || Apache License v2.0  || yes ||
|| [http://code.google.com/intl/de/apis/storage/ Google Storage]  || Public Cloud          || proprietary  || no ||

[http://code.google.com/intl/de/apis/storage/ Google Storage] support is not yet implemented because this service is currently available to a limited number of U.S. developers only.

If you don't have any S3 compatible Private Cloud services running, the most easy way is to get access to [http://aws.amazon.com/s3/ Amazon S3]. If you don't want this because e.g. you don't have a credit card you need a Private Cloud S3 service.

This tutorial focuses on [http://aws.amazon.com/s3/ Amazon S3] because it is the most common use case for KOALA and the Private Cloud S3 solutions have not the same level of stability and functionality.

If you have already created an AWS account and inserted your Access Key and Secret Access Key inside the *Regions* window, you can start working with [http://aws.amazon.com/s3/ Amazon S3] when you switch to one of the four AWS regions with the pull-down menu in the center of the header.

== Working with Buckets and Keys ==

The “Simple” in Simple Storage Service means not using this service is simple for the user. It means that there are just a few features provided. S3 is a simple key-based object store. Each object stores up to 5 GB, each accompanied by up to 2 KB of metadata. Bucket names and keys are addressable using HTTP URLs automatically:

*http://s3.amazonaws.com/bucket/key*

The namespace of S3 is very flat. Keys are stored in so called buckets and a bucket cannot include another bucket. It is impossible to have two buckets inside S3 with the same name. This means S3 has provides nothing like directories.
