#summary Welcome to the KOALA Cloud Manager
#labels Featured

= Getting Started =

Welcome to the KOALA Cloud Manager. These Wiki-Pages can help you with your first steps while using KOALA to work with various cloud services.

== Some Facts ==

KOALA...

  * is a software service, designed to help you working with your Amazon Web Services (AWS) compatible cloud services. The AWS public cloud and private cloud services based on [http://open.eucalyptus.com Eucalyptus], [http://www.nimbusproject.org Nimbus] or [http://www.opennebula.org OpenNebula] are supported.
  * is a service that runs inside the [http://appengine.google.com Google App Engine], [http://appscale.cs.ucsb.edu AppScale] and [http://code.google.com/p/typhoonae/ typhoonAE]
  * is Open Source and licensed according to the Apache License, Version 2.0
  * uses [http://code.google.com/p/boto/ boto], a Python interface to Amazon Web Services
  * uses icons from the Basic Set package from [http://www.pixel-mixer.com PixelMixer]
  * is successfully checked with the [http://validator.w3.org W3C Markup Validation Service] as HTML 4.01 Transitional

== What KOALA stands for ==

KOALA stands for <b>K</b>arlsruhe <b>O</b>pen <b>A</b>pplication (for) c<b>L</b>oud <b>A</b>dministration.

But the main reason for the name KOALA is, that it's easy to memorize. Furthermore [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Koala Koalas] like Eucalyptus.

Implemented features:

  * import credentials for [http://aws.amazon.com Amazon AWS], [http://open.eucalyptus.com Eucalyptus], [http://www.nimbusproject.org Nimbus] and [http://opennebula.org OpenNebula] services and infrastructures
  * switch active region
  * check availability zones
  * create and erase security groups and create and erase rules inside security groups
  * create, attach, detach and erase EBS volumes
  * create and erase snapshots from EBS volumes
  * create and erase keypairs
  * check images
  * start, reboot, stop and terminate instances
  * show console output of instances
  * allocate, attach, detach and release elastic IP addresses
  * erase all personal data from the datastore
  * create image favourites (for AWS)
  * create and erase S3 buckets
  * pure S3 mode and S3 mode with more comfort
  * upload and download S3 keys and change their Access Control List
  * alter and delete elastic load balancers (ELB)

== Advantages of KOALA compared to other solutions ==

  * No local installation needed. Lokal Installation is against the cloud paradigma
  * All browsers (not only Firefox) are supported
  * Open Source
  * Support all AWS compatible Public Cloud AND Private Clouds
  * KOALA can run inside Public Clouds and Private Clouds itself

== Drawbacks of KOALA compared to other solutions ==
  * Not all features of AWS supported
  * No support from the provider of the cloud services