#This tutorial shows how to install KOALA in an AppScale PaaS that runs inside EC2

[http://koalacloud.appspot.com KOALA] can run inside a Private Cloud PaaS with [http://appscale.cs.ucsb.edu AppScale]. AppScale itself can be run inside EC2, Eucalyptus or just on top of Xen. 

This tutorial shows how to start AppScale 1.3 inside EC2 and upload KOALA into the AppScale PaaS.

At first you neet do install the [http://code.google.com/p/appscale/ appscale-tools].

Pack KOALA sourcecode into a tar.gz

{{{
$ cd koalacloud
$ tar -cvzf koalacloud.tar.gz . --exclude=tutorial
$ mv koalacloud.tar.gz ../
}}}

Start AppScale PaaS inside EC2 (this need some time. 

{{{
$ appscale-run-instances --file ~/workspace/koalacloud.tar.gz --table voldemort
--max 2 --machine ami-14799b7d --keyname appscaletest -v

... lots of output here ...

Head node successfully created at ec2-204-236-248-30.compute-1.amazonaws.com. It is now starting up voldemort via the command line arguments given.
Killing and starting server at ec2-204-236-248-30.compute-1.amazonaws.com
Please wait for the controller to finish pre-processing tasks.

This AppScale instance is linked to an e-mail address giving it administrator privileges.
Enter your desired administrator e-mail address: baun@kit.edu
Please repeat your e-mail address to verify: baun@kit.edu

The new administrator password must be at least six characters long and can include non-alphanumeric characters.
Enter your new password: 
Enter again to verify: 
Please wait for AppScale to prepare your machines for use.
Spawning up 1 virtual machines
Copying over needed files and starting the AppController on the other VMs
Starting up Voldemort on the head node
Done starting up AppScale, now in heartbeat mode
Run instances: UserAppServer is at ec2-204-236-248-30.compute-1.amazonaws.com

Your user account has been created successfully.
Uploading koalacloud...
We have reserved the name koalacloud for your application.
koalacloud was uploaded successfully.
Please wait for your app to start up.

Your app can be reached at the following URL: http://ec2-204-236-248-30.compute-1.amazonaws.com/apps/koalacloud
The status of your AppScale instance is at the following URL: http://ec2-204-236-248-30.compute-1.amazonaws.com/status
}}}

Now, the problem is that the web server does not start up. This is a known bug of the AppScale image. The image tries to start the web server too soon before the load balancers configuration (/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/load-balancer.conf) is available. Therefore, you need to log in into the instance and restart the nginx web server manually.

{{{
$ ssh -i ~/.appscale/appscaletest.private ec2-204-236-248-30.compute-1.amazonaws.com -l root
# invoke-rc.d nginx restart
Restarting nginx: nginx.
}}}

Check the AppScale instances.

{{{
$ appscale-describe-instances --keyname appscaletest
Status of node at ec2-204-236-248-30.compute-1.amazonaws.com:
    Currently using 2.1 Percent CPU and 12.43 Percent Memory
    Database is at ec2-204-236-248-30.compute-1.amazonaws.com
    Hosting the following apps: koalacloud
    Current State: Done starting up AppScale, now in heartbeat mode
Status of node at ec2-184-72-173-167.compute-1.amazonaws.com:
    Currently using 1.4 Percent CPU and 14.37 Percent Memory
    Database is at ec2-184-72-173-167.compute-1.amazonaws.com
    Hosting the following apps: koalacloud
    Current State: Preparing to run AppEngine apps if needed
}}}



Now, KOALA should be available.


If you don't want your KOALA Private Cloud PaaS any more, you can kill the instances via

{{{
$ appscale-terminate-instances --keyname appscaletest
About to terminate instances spawned via ec2 with keyname 'appscaletest'...
INSTANCE	i-7bee9a11	running	shutting-down
INSTANCE	i-81e89ceb	running	shutting-down
Terminated AppScale across 2 boxes.

}}}

More to come...